## clixx.io EventFramework

### Rethinking C/C++

The clixx.io EventFramework is rethink of programming traditions with
respect to small mpu's and the C/C++ programming language.

What has happened with C/C++ is that as new requirements have come
along over the years, the first solution by engineers to get a new
feature working would be to place the request to the compiler maker.

If the feature request was good enough, the chances were that it would
be implemented. After that, there was then a chance that standards bodies
would enshrine a particular feature in the C++ standard.

What this has led to is that there are a number of 'hacks' from the
very early days of computers that are now accepted into mainstream
code. These 'hacks', which include handlers for interrupts, timers and 
serial-port data all sit in the C/C++ body of engineers code and the
way that they are done has never been rationalised.

### The easy coding style of the clixx.io Event-Framework

The clixx.io Eventframework is based on having an 'Application'
class which then passes program execution to event-handlers when
particular hardware or software events occur).

	```c++
	/* Simple Loop
	 * 
	 *  A trivial simple example of a clixx.io loop.
	 * 
	*/

	#include <stdio.h>
	#include "clixxIO.hpp"

	class App : public clixxIOApp{

		int loop(){
			// loop handler - This runs repeatedly
			printf("Program is running");
		};
		
		int setup(){
			// Setup - register the loop event for continuously running. 
			addLoopEvent(&loop());
		};
		
	};

	// Traditional main with Application object
	main(){
	  App m;
	  m.run();
	}

### Setup

The setup() function is executed once at start of the program and
is normally used to initialise devices.

### Loop

The loop() function is an optional method that can be repeatedly
run. It's not necessary to have a program loop() if the program
is running on other events, such as interrupts or serial-data
for example.

### Timers

The vast majority of embedded applications all need timers for some
purpose. Traditionally it's been left to the engineer to interface
to the hardware/operating-system to determine a base for the timing
system of the application. Not only does that require some effort,
it has led to a huge amount of program incompatability as programs
are coded to use the timing hardware of a particular platform rather
than get on with the job of actually doing the timing functions.

	/* Simple Timer
	 * A simple example of using timers.
	*/

	#include <stdio.h>
	#include "clixxIO.hpp"

	class App : public clixxIOApp{

	  public:
	  
		void timerevent(){
			// Timer Event handler - This will get called every two seconds.
			printf("Timer Callback\n");
		};
		
		void setup(){
			// setup - create a timer callback every 2 seconds
			printf("Application in startup event\n");

			addTimerEvent(2, (void (*)()) &App::timerevent);
		};
		
	};

	// Main program Section. Simply setup an App class and let it run
	int main(){
	 
	  App m;
	  
	  return m.run();

	}

	// Autogenerated interface between the event interface and application class
	#include "timer-callbacks.cpp"

### Interrupts

From the dawn of programming computers, there haven't been that many nice ways
to handle pin change interrupts from an application. 

Handling pin change interrupts is now moved into the main application object
and is available as part of the core application code rather than moved (usually) a
long way away from the main() function where most of the application logic is
expected to be.

With this structure, handling interrupts becomes part of the main application
functionality.

	/* Simple Interrupt counter
	 * 
	 *  A trivial example showing counting pin interrupts per second.
	 *  ie this is a very simple example of an RPS counter
	 * 
	*/

	#include <stdio.h>
	#include "clixxIO.hpp"

	class App : public clixxIOApp{

		volatile int counter = 0;
		
		int setup(){
			// Setup - create a timer that displays data every second
			//         as well as a pin change interrupt handler
			addTimerEvent(1, (void (*)()) &App::timerevent);
			addPinChangeEvent(GPIO_PIN16, RISING, (void (*)()) &App::PinChangeInterrupt());
		};
		
		int timerevent(){
			// timerevent - fired every second to display the value
			int v = counter; counter = 0;
			if (v == 0)
				printf('.')
			else
				printf("rps = %d\n", v);
		};
		
		int PinChangeInterrupt(){
			/* Interrupt service routine
			Handles a hardware interrupt of some sort
			*/
			++counter;
		}
	};

	// Traditional main with Application object

	main(){
	  App m;
	  m.run();
	}

### Serial Port Data

One of the very first things that computers ever did was send data over
serial ports. Unfortunately, until the Wiring language, there's never been
that many consistent interfaces for handling serial data streams.

In the EventFramework, serial data can be received and passed to the
application either in blocks or lines with a callback able to be setup
when the data is available.

    [lang=c++]
	/* Simple Serial Handler
	 * 
	 *  A trivial example showing counting pin interrupts per second.
	 *  ie this is a very simple example of an RPS counter
	 * 
	*/

	#include <stdio.h>
	#include "clixxIO.hpp"

	class App : public clixxIOApp{

		int setup(){
			// Setup - create an event that prints out serial data from a port
			//         as well as a pin change interrupt handler
			addSerialDataEvent(GPIO_PIN1, 9600, (void (*)()) &App::serialData());
		};
	   
		int serialData(const char* buffer, const int bufflen){
			//* SerialData - Print out the data received on the port
			printf(buffer)

		}
	};

	// Traditional main with Application object

	main(){
	  App m;
	  m.run();
	}

### Network (Socket) Data

In the EventFramework, Network data can be handled as easily as serial. 

Network data can be received and passed to the application either in 
blocks or lines with a callback able to be setup when the data is available.


